A point of time recovery for DB is a keyword in the backup strategies which defines how soon we can recover the data and make it accessible in the case of DB failures.
To make the data accessible at any point of time we need to take as many backups as possible to avoid the data loss  and integrity of the data.
This meaning the data will be backed up in such a way which is as up-to-the-moment as possible.As i am currently working in a Banking Firm,the databackups are very critical to us.
Below is the backup strategy we are using for the DBs .

Backup and Restore Strategy:

Full Database Backup:
Frequency: Weekly (Usually happens on the weekend as data is huge)
A full backup of the entire database is taken to capture the entire state of the database.

Incremental or Differential Backups:
Frequency: Daily (occurs  during non business hours )
Optionally, incremental or differential backups can be taken to reduce backup size and duration.

Transaction Log Backups:
Frequency: Every 15 minutes
Transaction log backups are taken at regular intervals to capture changes since the last backup.

Example Timeline:

Day 1:
Full database backup taken on Sunday at midnight.
Transaction log backups taken every 15 minutes throughout the day.

Day 2:

Incremental or differential backup taken on Monday at midnight.
Transaction log backups taken every 15 minutes throughout the day.

Day 3 (Failure Occurs):

A failure occurs, and data is lost.
Restore starts by using the latest full backup from Day 2 and applying transaction log backups.

Restore Process:

Restore Full Backup:

Restore the latest full backup from Day 2 to the database server.
The database is now in the state it was in at the time of the full backup.

Apply Transaction Log Backups:

Apply transaction log backups from the point of the last full backup up to the desired point in time.
For example, if the failure occurred at 2:30 PM on Day 3, apply transaction log backups until 2:15 PM.

Database Recovery:

The database is now recovered to the desired point in time.

During the above restore process, there are few things which needs to be consider.
1. There should not be any mistake during the backup process.
2. Do regular checkings should be done on the backup process, to ensure all backups are happening correctly.
